
# Host-specific gene content of bumblebee and honeybee gut bacteria
## Sequence a Genome 2, Group 4
### Laurent Casini and Cyril Matthey-Doret
### Supervised by Olivier Emery

In this project, we analyse the gene content of various Lactobacillus strains and investigate what genes are specific to bumblebee and honeybee hosts.

This repository contains the code required to re-run the analysis of host specific gene content.

To run the analysis from scratch, simply ```cd``` to the main directory and type `make` on the command line.

### scripts:
* `extract_orthol.py`: Takes a list of strains (`strain_list`) and an orthoMCL table (`mclOutput`) as inputs. Categorizes gene families depending on the host in which their are present. It outputs a new ortholog table for each combination of hosts (B, BH, BHO, H, HO and O) and each of these table contains the subset of gene famiilies found in strains from the corresponding hosts.

* `core_set.py`: Takes the same inputs as `extract_orthol.py`. Also outputs one ortholog table per host combination. Each ortholog table contains gene families that are "core" to the group, i.e. gene families present in every single strain of the concerned group.

* `coreGenome.py`: Alternative version of `extract_orthol.py` with the same function. Does not take a list of strain as input as it is hard-coded in the script. This version is not used in the Makefile.

* `gene_counter.sh`: Takes an input filename pattern and and output filename as input. This script counts the number of line in the input files and outputs a table with the number of lines of each filename. It is used to count both the number of gene families and core set in each category.

* `GO_enrich.R`: Not yet implemented.

* `venn_gene_sets.R`: Takes two table generated by `gene_counter.sh` as input: one for the gene families per category and one for the core sets. It then constructs a venn diagram showing the different host combinations and their respective number of gene families and core sets.

### data:
* `mclOutput`: OrthoMCL table containing gene families of all Lactobacillus strains considered here
* `strain_list`: List of all strains with their orthoMCL ID, genbank accession number, host (honeybee (H), bumblebee (B) or Outgroup (O))
`genomes`: Folder containing a fasta file for each strain with all of its genes
